blog/content/post/2020-07-21-secure-app-coding-practices: Add content… (#296)
3mdeb/news-and-ideas: blog/content/post/2020-07-21-secure-app-coding-practices.md

---
title: Secure Application – Best coding practices
abstract: "When building an application, we must assume that it will be exposed to hackers at all times, but also to misuse by ordinary recipients. The danger of the first group seems obvious, but what kind of risk are other users?"
cover: /covers/secure-app.jpg
author: malwina.mika
layout: post
published: true
date: 2020-07-22
archives: "2020"

tags:
  - security
  - snyk
  - helmet
  - hackers
  - vulnerability
categories:
  - Development
  - App Dev
  - Security
---

> When building an application, we must assume that it will be exposed to hackers at all times, but also to misuse by ordinary recipients. The danger of the first group seems obvious, but what kind of risk are other users? You must know that attempts to "cheat the system" are quite common, especially in the e-commerce industry. There is a group of users who count, for example, on errors in calculating discounts or the number of elements. You can expect that if you have an online store, there will be at least a few people who will try to use your site in such a way as to find a vulnerability. Therefore, we must be really careful when building an application. We cannot count on everyone to act according to our plan. A secure application is one in which the author assumes the opposite scenario - such that everyone wants to find a vulnerability in our system. Only such an approach, and then appropriate protection, can give us at least a substitute for security.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When building an application, we must assume that it will be exposed to hackers at all times, but it also may be misused by ordinary recipients. The danger of the first group seems obvious, but what kind of risk are other users? You must know that attempts to "cheat the system" are quite common, especially in the e-commerce industry. There is a group of users who count, for example, on errors in calculating discounts or the number of elements. You can expect that if you have an online store, there will be at least a few people who will try to use your site in such a way to find a vulnerability. Therefore, we must be really careful when building an application. We cannot count on everyone to act according to our plan. A secure application is one in which the author assumes the opposite scenario - such that everyone wants to find a vulnerability in our system. Only such an approach, and then appropriate protection, can give us at least a substitute for security.
```

We will try to approach the topic from a slightly easier side - what are the best practices for writing secure web applications?
There are many of them, but here we'll cover some very basic rules to keep in mind.

### Hide sensitive data

This may seem obvious to you but the passwords for our accounts are so important that we should protect them as tightly as possible.

> If you make a test app and keep it in your repository you can say it doesn't matter. However, have you really not used this password somewhere? Hackers know very well that most internet users often use the exact same combination of characters. So you can expose yourself to the fact that someone will try to use the login data found, e.g. on Twitter or Google account. An even worse scenario is possible, because what if you don't change your password before the app is released to the world? Even if you make your repository private from then on, there's no guarantee that someone hasn't already saved your data. Such neglect could cost you a lot.

Reviewer: Access to repository also can be stolen or otherwise obtained - not common, but possible.

Reviewer 2: patronisning: If you make a test app and keep it in your repository you can say it doesn't matter.

First of all it is good practice to use separate channels of communication for sharing sensitive information such as a PIN or password. For example, you can use an HTTPS network connection to share encrypted data between the client and server, and then use APNS/GCM or SMS to share the PIN or token/key with the client app. That way, even if one channel of communication is compromised, the security of the overall system remains intact. Additionaly most local development and hosting environments now provide a mechanism for registering custom [environment variables](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/security/app-secrets?view=aspnetcore-3.1&tabs=windows/).

> Don't forget though that keeping your server code on the repository, even without passwords, can be risky. If your script has any vulnerabilities, the hacker will be able to easily detect them, and then attack the application published, for example to download data from the database using it.

Reviewer: This is kind of against open-source approach. When others can look into the code, they can point out those security issues, maybe even fix it. I think hiding the code makes it harder to fix than to break.

### Strong password

Hiding your password won't do anything if it's just weak. Remember that hackers often operate on powerful hardware that makes code-cracking applications extremely efficient. How can we protect ourselves against it? The attack called "by dictionary" tries the most popular combinations from words that already exist. That can be phrases or words from the dictionary.

> The most efficient way to fight against this attack is to use a password containing at least 14 characters that includes special characters, numbers, letters lower and upper cases. It is also very important to not use the same password for everything, they must be all different. It’s up to you find a proper way to remember them all... This is of course a very general answer. However, this is the minimum that we should stick to. It is difficult to create an exact list of requirements, as these often change, e.g. until recently it was a very popular practice to force users to periodically change their password. Meanwhile, Microsoft says, based on its experience, that this approach does more harm than good. Out of laziness, users choose almost identical passwords anyway, changing only one of the last characters, which is why, for example, in their [new guidelines](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/admin/misc/password-policy-recommendations?view=o365-worldwide/) for Office 365, the technological giant recommends abandoning this idea.

Reviewer: As a side note, I think that a website/app requesting that a password CANNOT have a digit would be more secure, as it would force the user to have a different password than on the other platforms, while not reducing the number of combinations significantly (there are still ~80 other possible characters on normal PC keyboard).

---
title: Secure Application – Best coding practices

> abstract: 'When building an application, we must assume that it will be exposed to hackers at all times, but also to abuse by ordinary recipients. The danger of the first group seems obvious, but what kind of risk are other users?'

Author: Fixed

> abstract: 'When building an application, we must assume that it will be exposed to hackers at all times, but also to abuse by ordinary recipients. The danger of the first group seems obvious, but what kind of risk are other users?'

Reviewer 2: all times and may be misused/abused by [struktura zaburzona]
może zamiast other to standard users? :) brzmi bardzo intrygująco

author: malwina.mika
layout: post
published: true
date: 2020-07-22
archives: "2020"

tags:
  - security
  - snyk
  - helmet
  - hackers
  - vulnerability
categories:
  - Development
  - App Dev
  - Security
---

When building an application, we must assume that it will be exposed to hackers at all times, but also to abuse by ordinary recipients. The danger of the first group seems obvious, but what kind of risk are other users? You must know that attempts to "cheat the system" are quite common, especially in the e-commerce industry. There is a group of users who count, for example, on errors in calculating discounts or the number of elements. You can expect that if you have an online store, there will be at least a few people who will try to use your site in such a way as to find a vulnerability. Therefore, we must be really careful when building an application. We cannot count on everyone to act according to our plan. A secure application is one in which the author assumes the opposite scenario - such that everyone wants to find a vulnerability in our system. Only such an approach, and then appropriate protection, can give us at least a substitute for security.

> We will try to approach the topic from a slightly easier side - what are the best practices for writing web applications?

Reviewer 3: > what are the best practices for writing web applications?

we can add 'secure' to this sentence "_what are the best practices for writing **secure** web applications?_"

Author: Fixed

Reviewer 2: what kind of risk bring standard users?

First of all it is good practice to use separate channels of communication for sharing sensitive information such as a PIN or password. For example, you can use an HTTPS network connection to share encrypted data between the client and server, and then use APNS/GCM or SMS to share the PIN or token/key with the client app. That way, even if one channel of communication is compromised, the security of the overall system remains intact. Additionaly most local development and hosting environments now provide a mechanism for registering custom [environment variables](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/aspnet/core/security/app-secrets?view=aspnetcore-3.1&tabs=windows/). 

Don't forget though that keeping your server code on the repo, even without passwords, can be risky. If your script has any vulnerabilities, the hacker will be able to easily detect them, and then attack the application published, for example to download data from the database using it.

### Strong password

> Hiding your password won't do anything if it's just weak. Remember that hackers often operate on powerful hardware that makes code-cracking applications extremely efficient. How can we protect ourselves against it? The attack called "by dictionary" tries the most popular combinations from words that already exist. That can be phrases or words from the dictionary.

Reviewer 3: This paragraph, or a new one, could use a few words about 2FA, such as authenticators, tokens - maybe even physical keys (Yubikey, etc.)

Author: I would like to address the issue of injections, neutralizing threats, "broken authentication" and testing  in another article because the topic is really extensive. Here I only focused on the basic practices of secure coding

Reviewer 2: too patronizing: leave "remember that"
dictionary appears twice nearby

The most efficient way to fight against this attack is to use a password containing at least 14 characters that includes special characters, numbers, letters lower and upper cases. It is also very important to not use the same password for everything, they must be all different. It’s up to you find a proper way to remember them all... This is of course a very general answer. However, this is the minimum that we should stick to. It is difficult to create an exact list of requirements, as these often change, e.g. until recently it was a very popular practice to force users to periodically change their password. Meanwhile, Microsoft says, based on its experience, that this approach does more harm than good. Out of laziness, users choose almost identical passwords anyway, changing only one of the last characters, which is why, for example, in their [new guidelines](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/microsoft-365/admin/misc/password-policy-recommendations?view=o365-worldwide/) for Office 365, the technological giant recommends abandoning this idea. 

### Always validate the data also on the server

> The "required" attribute for the text field or "disabled" for the select item, we are able to turn off these items in the development tools. Validations written in JS can also be modified on the fly, or you can simply turn off JavaScript.

Reviewer 3: We could mention the most common vulnerabilities, like SQL Injection or cross-origin request forgery, and how one should treat every user input as being potentially harmful.

Author: I would like to address the issue of injections, neutralizing threats, "broken authentication" and testing  in another article because the topic is really extensive. Here I only focused on the basic practices of secure coding

Remember - always verify the data also the second time, on the server side.

### Try… catch mistakes

Working with external libraries, these may have different error notification systems. Some just "throw" Error, others print exact messages, and some let us decide ourselves how to behave in case of a problem. However, we do not want JS throwing the default error content to the user, because it is often incomprehensible and can expose us to leakage of sensitive data. Remember to use the Try… catch block to contol the errors.

### Keep your web app updated

Try to use popular and valued packages. Pay attention to the number of editions, downloads and the date of the last update. It is very important that the package is still supported. Then, even if any gaps are found, they should be patched quickly.

Avoid packages that the author himself describes as deprecated. Even if you think a package is perfect for your needs, it's quite possible that in many cases it won't work properly with your code. In addition, there is a good chance that it has some security flaws. Remember that IT is an extremely dynamic industry.

> Update your dependent packages

Reviewer 3: Should it be a heading?

Author: fixed

Reviewer 2: patronising words: try, remember that and so on...

Also to avoid vulnerabilities that are present in any framework or library, you should make sure you actually use all the libraries integrated into your software and use the latest version of each library, if it’s stable.

### Tools that may be useful to you

If any gaps are found, the authors of the packages try to patch them. In order for your app to take advantage of these changes (fixes), you need to update them as needed. Unfortunately, we often have so many of them that checking each of them manually would be quite a breakneck task. So a good solution may be to use a tool called **Snyk**. It automatically checks the GitHub repository and reports on possible dangers. You can use it online at [this link](https://snyk.io/test/).

In addition to the above good practices, the use of the **helmet** package is standard. Its task is to properly set the HTTP headers so that our server is less vulnerable to attacks. A description of all functionalities can be found at [here](https://helmetjs.github.io/). Take this package as a basis and something that will as much as possible hamper attacks that could take advantage of the weaknesses of the header settings.

## Summary

> The more extensive and complex the application, the more vulnerabilities may appear init. If its role is sensitive (e.g. creating a bank's website), we will be exposed to more attacks, and these can often be extremely sophisticated. So we are not able to prepare ourselves for a threat in 100%.  Nevertheless, we must try to minimize the danger. Securing your applications is very important and the industry is constantly evolving. Important systems must be analyzed on an on going basis and, if necessary, adjusted to deal with new forms of attacks. Only this approach gives us are latively large guarantee as to safety.

Reviewer 3: We can mention validation steps or TDD culture as a means to achieve better security and integration within our app

Author: I would like to address the issue of injections, neutralizing threats, "broken authentication" and testing  in another article because the topic is really extensive. Here I only focused on the basic practices of secure coding

Reviewer 2: the application is in it/inside.
